Already have an account? Log In | Safety Catalog |Find a Branch
SAFETY DATA SHEET
Carbon Dioxide
Section 1. Identification
GHS product identifier : Carbon Dioxide
Chemical name : Carbon Dioxide
Other means of : Not available.
identification
Product type : Gas.
Product use : Synthetic/Analytical chemistry.
SDS # : 001013
Supplier's details : Airgas USA, LLC and its affiliates
259 North Radnor-Chester Road
Suite 100
Radnor, PA 19087-5283
1-610-687-5253
Inside the US: 1-800-424-9300 (Chemtrec, 24 hours)
Outside the US: 1-703-527-3887 (Chemtrec, 24 hours)
24-hour telephone : Airgas Emergency Response Center 1-866-734-3438
Section 2. Hazards identification
OSHA/HCS status : This material is considered hazardous by the OSHA Hazard Communication Standard
(29 CFR 1910.1200).
Classification of the : GASES UNDER PRESSURE - Liquefied gas
substance or mixture
GHS label elements
Hazard pictograms :
Signal word : Warning
Hazard statements : H280 - Contains gas under pressure; may explode if heated.
May displace oxygen and cause rapid suffocation.
May increase respiration and heart rate.
Precautionary statements
General : Read and follow all Safety Data Sheets (SDS’S) before use. Read label before use.
Keep out of reach of children. If medical advice is needed, have product container or
label at hand. Close valve after each use and when empty. Use equipment rated for
cylinder pressure. Do not open valve until connected to equipment prepared for use.
Use a back flow preventative device in the piping. Use only equipment of compatible
materials of construction. Always keep container in upright position.
Prevention : Not applicable.
Response : Not applicable.
Storage : P410 + P403 - Protect from sunlight. Store in a well-ventilated place.
Disposal : Not applicable.
Hazards not otherwise : In addition to any other important health or physical hazards, this product may displace
classified oxygen and cause rapid suffocation.
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 1/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 3. Composition/information on ingredients
Substance/mixture : Substance
Chemical name : Carbon Dioxide
Other means of : Not available.
identification
Product code : 001013
Ingredient name % CAS number
Carbon Dioxide 100 124-38-9
Any concentration shown as a range is to protect confidentiality or is due to batch variation.
There are no additional ingredients present which, within the current knowledge of the supplier and in the
concentrations applicable, are classified as hazardous to health or the environment and hence require reporting
in this section.
Occupational exposure limits, if available, are listed in Section 8.
Section 4. First aid measures
Description of necessary first aid measures
Eye contact : Immediately flush eyes with plenty of water, occasionally lifting the upper and lower
eyelids. Check for and remove any contact lenses. Get medical attention if irritation
occurs.
Inhalation : Remove victim to fresh air and keep at rest in a position comfortable for breathing.
Skin contact : Flush contaminated skin with plenty of water. Remove contaminated clothing and
shoes. Get medical attention if symptoms occur.
Ingestion : As this product is a gas, refer to the inhalation section.
Most important symptoms/effects, acute and delayed
Potential acute health effects
Eye contact : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Inhalation : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Skin contact : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Frostbite : Try to warm up the frozen tissues and seek medical attention.
Ingestion : As this product is a gas, refer to the inhalation section.
Over-exposure signs/symptoms
Eye contact : No specific data.
Inhalation : No specific data.
Skin contact : No specific data.
Ingestion : No specific data.
Indication of immediate medical attention and special treatment needed, if necessary
Notes to physician : Treat symptomatically. Contact poison treatment specialist immediately if large
quantities have been ingested or inhaled.
Specific treatments : No specific treatment.
Protection of first-aiders : No action shall be taken involving any personal risk or without suitable training.
See toxicological information (Section 11)
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 2/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 5. Fire-fighting measures
Extinguishing media
Suitable extinguishing : Use an extinguishing agent suitable for the surrounding fire.
media
Unsuitable extinguishing : None known.
media
Specific hazards arising : Contains gas under pressure. In a fire or if heated, a pressure increase will occur and
from the chemical the container may burst or explode.
Hazardous thermal : Decomposition products may include the following materials:
decomposition products carbon dioxide
carbon monoxide
Special protective actions : Promptly isolate the scene by removing all persons from the vicinity of the incident if
for fire-fighters there is a fire. No action shall be taken involving any personal risk or without suitable
training. Contact supplier immediately for specialist advice. Move containers from fire
area if this can be done without risk. Use water spray to keep fire-exposed containers
cool.
Special protective : Fire-fighters should wear appropriate protective equipment and self-contained breathing
equipment for fire-fighters apparatus (SCBA) with a full face-piece operated in positive pressure mode.
Section 6. Accidental release measures
Personal precautions, protective equipment and emergency procedures
For non-emergency : No action shall be taken involving any personal risk or without suitable training.
personnel Evacuate surrounding areas. Keep unnecessary and unprotected personnel from
entering. Put on appropriate personal protective equipment.
For emergency responders : If specialized clothing is required to deal with the spillage, take note of any information in
Section 8 on suitable and unsuitable materials. See also the information in "For non-
emergency personnel".
Environmental precautions : Ensure emergency procedures to deal with accidental gas releases are in place to avoid
contamination of the environment. Inform the relevant authorities if the product has
caused environmental pollution (sewers, waterways, soil or air).
Methods and materials for containment and cleaning up
Small spill : Immediately contact emergency personnel. Stop leak if without risk.
Large spill : Immediately contact emergency personnel. Stop leak if without risk.
Section 7. Handling and storage
Precautions for safe handling
Protective measures : Put on appropriate personal protective equipment (see Section 8). Contains gas under
pressure. Avoid breathing gas. Do not puncture or incinerate container. Use
equipment rated for cylinder pressure. Close valve after each use and when empty.
Protect cylinders from physical damage; do not drag, roll, slide, or drop. Use a suitable
hand truck for cylinder movement.
Avoid contact with eyes, skin and clothing. Empty containers retain product residue
and can be hazardous.
Advice on general : Eating, drinking and smoking should be prohibited in areas where this material is
occupational hygiene handled, stored and processed. Workers should wash hands and face before eating,
drinking and smoking. Remove contaminated clothing and protective equipment before
entering eating areas. See also Section 8 for additional information on hygiene
measures.
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 3/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 7. Handling and storage
Conditions for safe storage, : Store in accordance with local regulations. Store in a segregated and approved area.
including any Store away from direct sunlight in a dry, cool and well-ventilated area, away from
incompatibilities incompatible materials (see Section 10). Keep container tightly closed and sealed until
ready for use. See Section 10 for incompatible materials before handling or use.
Cylinders should be stored upright, with valve protection cap in place, and firmly
secured to prevent falling or being knocked over. Cylinder temperatures should not
exceed 52 °C (125 °F).
Section 8. Exposure controls/personal protection
Control parameters
Occupational exposure limits
Ingredient name Exposure limits
Carbon Dioxide None.
Biological exposure indices
No exposure indices known.
Appropriate engineering : Good general ventilation should be sufficient to control worker exposure to airborne
controls contaminants.
Environmental exposure : Emissions from ventilation or work process equipment should be checked to ensure
controls they comply with the requirements of environmental protection legislation. In some
cases, fume scrubbers, filters or engineering modifications to the process equipment
will be necessary to reduce emissions to acceptable levels.
Individual protection measures
Hygiene measures : Wash hands, forearms and face thoroughly after handling chemical products, before
eating, smoking and using the lavatory and at the end of the working period.
Appropriate techniques should be used to remove potentially contaminated clothing.
Wash contaminated clothing before reusing. Ensure that eyewash stations and safety
showers are close to the workstation location.
Eye/face protection : Safety eyewear complying with an approved standard should be used when a risk
assessment indicates this is necessary to avoid exposure to liquid splashes, mists,
gases or dusts. If contact is possible, the following protection should be worn, unless
the assessment indicates a higher degree of protection: safety glasses with side-
shields.
Skin protection
Hand protection : Chemical-resistant, impervious gloves complying with an approved standard should be
worn at all times when handling chemical products if a risk assessment indicates this is
necessary. Considering the parameters specified by the glove manufacturer, check
during use that the gloves are still retaining their protective properties. It should be
noted that the time to breakthrough for any glove material may be different for different
glove manufacturers. In the case of mixtures, consisting of several substances, the
protection time of the gloves cannot be accurately estimated.
Body protection : Personal protective equipment for the body should be selected based on the task being
performed and the risks involved and should be approved by a specialist before
handling this product.
Other skin protection : Appropriate footwear and any additional skin protection measures should be selected
based on the task being performed and the risks involved and should be approved by a
specialist before handling this product.
Respiratory protection : Based on the hazard and potential for exposure, select a respirator that meets the
appropriate standard or certification. Respirators must be used according to a
respiratory protection program to ensure proper fitting, training, and other important
aspects of use. Respirator selection must be based on known or anticipated exposure
levels, the hazards of the product and the safe working limits of the selected respirator.
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 4/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 9. Physical and chemical properties
Appearance
Physical state : Gas. [Compressed gas.]
Color : Colorless.
Odor : Odorless.
Odor threshold : Not available.
pH : Not applicable.
Melting point/freezing point : Sublimes
Boiling point or initial : Not available.
boiling point and boiling
range
Flash point : [Product does not sustain combustion.]
Evaporation rate : Not available.
Flammability (solid, gas) : Not available.
Lower and upper explosive : Not available.
(flammable) limits
Vapor pressure : 830 (psig)
Relative vapor density : 1.5 [Air = 1]
Specific Volume (ft 3/lb) : 8.7719
Gas Density (lb/ft 3) : 0.114
Relative density : Not applicable.
Solubility in water : Not available.
Partition coefficient: n- : 0.83
octanol/water
Auto-ignition temperature : Not available.
Decomposition temperature : Not available.
Flow time (ISO 2431) : Not available.
Molecular weight : 44.01 g/mole
Section 10. Stability and reactivity
Reactivity : No specific test data related to reactivity available for this product or its ingredients.
Chemical stability : The product is stable.
Possibility of hazardous : Under normal conditions of storage and use, hazardous reactions will not occur.
reactions
Conditions to avoid : No specific data.
Incompatible materials : No specific data.
Hazardous decomposition : Under normal conditions of storage and use, hazardous decomposition products should
products not be produced.
Hazardous polymerization : Under normal conditions of storage and use, hazardous polymerization will not occur.
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 5/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 11. Toxicological information
Information on toxicological effects
Acute toxicity
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Skin corrosion/irritation
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Serious eye damage/eye irritation
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Respiratory corrosion/irritation
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Respiratory or skin sensitization
Not available.
Skin
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Respiratory
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Germ cell mutagenicity
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Carcinogenicity
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Reproductive toxicity
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Specific target organ toxicity (single exposure)
Not available.
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 6/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 11. Toxicological information
Specific target organ toxicity (repeated exposure)
Not available.
Aspiration hazard
Not available.
Information on the likely routes of exposure
Not available.
Potential acute health effects
Eye contact : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Inhalation : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Skin contact : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Ingestion : As this product is a gas, refer to the inhalation section.
Symptoms related to the physical, chemical and toxicological characteristics
Eye contact : No specific data.
Inhalation : No specific data.
Skin contact : No specific data.
Ingestion : No specific data.
Delayed and immediate effects and also chronic effects from short and long term exposure
Short term exposure
Potential immediate : Not available.
effects
Potential delayed effects : Not available.
Long term exposure
Potential immediate : Not available.
effects
Potential delayed effects : Not available.
Potential chronic health effects
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
General : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Carcinogenicity : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Mutagenicity : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Reproductive toxicity : No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Numerical measures of toxicity
Acute toxicity estimates
N/A
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 7/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 12. Ecological information
Toxicity
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Persistence and degradability
Not available.
Conclusion/Summary [Product] : Not available.
Bioaccumulative potential
Product/ingredient name LogP BCF Potential
ow
Carbon Dioxide 0.83 - Low
Mobility in soil
Soil/Water partition : Not available.
coefficient
Other adverse effects
No known significant effects or critical hazards.
Section 13. Disposal considerations
Disposal methods : The generation of waste should be avoided or minimized wherever possible. Disposal
of this product, solutions and any by-products should at all times comply with the
requirements of environmental protection and waste disposal legislation and any
regional local authority requirements. Dispose of surplus and non-recyclable products
via a licensed waste disposal contractor. Waste should not be disposed of untreated to
the sewer unless fully compliant with the requirements of all authorities with jurisdiction.
Empty pressure vessels should be returned to the supplier. Waste packaging should be
recycled. Incineration or landfill should only be considered when recycling is not
feasible. This material and its container must be disposed of in a safe way. Empty
containers or liners may retain some product residues. Do not puncture or incinerate
container.
Section 14. Transport information
DOT TDG Mexico IMDG IATA
UN number UN1013 UN1013 UN1013 UN1013 UN1013
UN proper CARBON CARBON CARBON CARBON CARBON
shipping name DIOXIDE DIOXIDE DIOXIDE DIOXIDE DIOXIDE
Transport 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2 2.2
hazard class(es)
Packing group - - - - -
Environmental No. No. No. No. No.
hazards
“Refer to CFR 49 (or authority having jurisdiction) to determine the information required for shipment of the
product.”
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 8/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 14. Transport information
Additional information
DOT Classification : Limited quantity Yes.
Quantity limitation Passenger aircraft/rail: 75 kg. Cargo aircraft: 150 kg.
TDG Classification : Product classified as per the following sections of the Transportation of Dangerous
Goods Regulations: 2.13-2.17 (Class 2).
Explosive Limit and Limited Quantity Index 0.125
Passenger Carrying Road or Rail Index 75
IATA : Quantity limitation Passenger and Cargo Aircraft: 75 kg. Cargo Aircraft Only: 150 kg.
Special precautions for user : Transport within user’s premises: always transport in closed containers that are
upright and secure. Ensure that persons transporting the product know what to do in the
event of an accident or spillage.
Transport in bulk according : Not available.
to IMO instruments
Section 15. Regulatory information
U.S. Federal regulations :
TSCA 8(a) CDR Exempt/Partial exemption: This material is listed or exempted.
TSCA 12(b) - Chemical export notification
Not applicable.
Clean Air Act Section 112 : Not listed
(b) Hazardous Air
Pollutants (HAPs)
Clean Air Act Section 602 : Not listed
Class I Substances
Clean Air Act Section 602 : Not listed
Class II Substances
DEA List I Chemicals : Not listed
(Precursor Chemicals)
DEA List II Chemicals : Not listed
(Essential Chemicals)
SARA 302/304
Composition/information on ingredients
No products were found.
SARA 304 RQ : Not applicable.
SARA 311/312
Classification : Refer to Section 2: Hazards Identification of this SDS for classification of substance.
State regulations
Massachusetts : This material is listed.
New York : This material is not listed.
New Jersey : This material is listed.
Pennsylvania : This material is listed.
California Prop. 65
This product does not require a Safe Harbor warning under California Prop. 65.
International regulations
Chemical Weapon Convention List Schedules I, II & III Chemicals
Not listed.
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 9/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 15. Regulatory information
Montreal Protocol
Not listed.
Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants
Not listed.
Rotterdam Convention on Prior Informed Consent (PIC)
Not listed.
UNECE Aarhus Protocol on POPs and Heavy Metals
Not listed.
Inventory list
Australia : This material is listed or exempted.
Canada : This material is listed or exempted.
China : This material is listed or exempted.
Eurasian Economic Union : Russian Federation inventory: Not determined.
Japan : Japan inventory (CSCL): This material is listed or exempted.
Japan inventory (ISHL): This material is listed or exempted.
New Zealand : This material is listed or exempted.
Philippines : This material is listed or exempted.
Republic of Korea : This material is listed or exempted.
Taiwan : This material is listed or exempted.
Thailand : This material is listed or exempted.
Turkey : This material is listed or exempted.
United States : This material is active or exempted.
Viet Nam : This material is listed or exempted.
Section 16. Other information
Hazardous Material Information System (U.S.A.)
Health / 1
Flammability 0
Physical hazards 0
Caution: HMIS® ratings are based on a 0-4 rating scale, with 0 representing minimal hazards or risks, and 4
representing significant hazards or risks. Although HMIS® ratings and the associated label are not required on
SDSs or products leaving a facility under 29 CFR 1910.1200, the preparer may choose to provide them. HMIS®
ratings are to be used with a fully implemented HMIS® program. HMIS® is a registered trademark and service
mark of the American Coatings Association, Inc.
The customer is responsible for determining the PPE code for this material. For more information on HMIS®
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) codes, consult the HMIS® Implementation Manual.
National Fire Protection Association (U.S.A.)
0 Flammability
Health 2 0 Instability/Reactivity
Special
Reprinted with permission from NFPA 704-2001, Identification of the Hazards of Materials for Emergency
Response Copyright ©1997, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is
not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject
which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 10/11
Carbon Dioxide
Section 16. Other information
Copyright ©2001, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This warning system is intended to be
interpreted and applied only by properly trained individuals to identify fire, health and reactivity hazards of
chemicals. The user is referred to certain limited number of chemicals with recommended classifications in
NFPA 49 and NFPA 325, which would be used as a guideline only. Whether the chemicals are classified by NFPA
or not, anyone using the 704 systems to classify chemicals does so at their own risk.
Procedure used to derive the classification
Classification Justification
GASES UNDER PRESSURE - Liquefied gas Expert judgment
History
Date of printing : 3/28/2025
Date of issue/Date of : 3/28/2025
revision
Date of previous issue : 3/13/2025
Version : 8.02
Key to abbreviations : ATE = Acute Toxicity Estimate
BCF = Bioconcentration Factor
GHS = Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals
IATA = International Air Transport Association
IBC = Intermediate Bulk Container
IMDG = International Maritime Dangerous Goods
LogPow = logarithm of the octanol/water partition coefficient
MARPOL = International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution From Ships, 1973
as modified by the Protocol of 1978. ("Marpol" = marine pollution)
UN = United Nations
References : Not available.
Notice to reader
To the best of our knowledge, the information contained herein is accurate. However, neither the above-named
supplier, nor any of its subsidiaries, assumes any liability whatsoever for the accuracy or completeness of the
information contained herein.
Final determination of suitability of any material is the sole responsibility of the user. All materials may present
unknown hazards and should be used with caution. Although certain hazards are described herein, we cannot
guarantee that these are the only hazards that exist.
Date of issue/Date of revision :3/28/2025 Date of previous issue :3/13/2025 Version :8.02 11/11