SAFETY DATA SHEET
ECOLAB

SECTION 1. PRODUCT AND COMPANY IDENTIFICATION

Product name . HYDROGEN PEROXIDE

Other means of identification : Not applicable

Recommended use . Laundry product

Restrictions on use . Reserved for industrial and professional use.
Product dilution information  : Product is sold ready to use.

Company . Ecolab Inc.

1 Ecolab Place
St. Paul, Minnesota USA 55102
1-800-352-5326

Emergency health . 1-800-328-0026 (US/Canada), 1-651-222-5352 (outside US)
information
Issuing date . 03/14/2019

SECTION 2. HAZARDS IDENTIFICATION

GHS Classification

Oxidizing liquids . Category 3
Acute toxicity (Oral) . Category 4
Serious eye damage . Category 1

GHS label elements

Hazard pictograms

Signal Word . Danger
Hazard Statements . May intensify fire; oxidizer.

Harmful if swallowed.
Causes serious eye damage.

Precautionary Statements : Prevention:
Keep away from heat. Keep/Store away from clothing/ combustible
materials. Take any precaution to avoid mixing with combustibles.
Wash skin thoroughly after handling. Do not eat, drink or smoke when
using this product. Wear protective gloves/ eye protection/ face
protection.
Response:
IF SWALLOWED: Call a POISON CENTER/doctor if you feel unwell.
Rinse mouth. IF IN EYES: Rinse cautiously with water for several
minutes. Remove contact lenses, if present and easy to do. Continue
rinsing. Immediately call a POISON CENTER/doctor. In case of fire:
Use dry sand, dry chemical or alcohol-resistant foam to extinguish.
Disposal:
Dispose of contents/ container to an approved waste disposal plant.

Other hazards : None known.

959320-02 1/8

SAFETY DATA SHEET
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE

SECTION 3. COMPOSITION/INFORMATION ON INGREDIENTS

Pure substance/mixture . Mixture
Chemical name CAS-No. Concentration (%)
Hydrogen peroxide 7722-84-1 33

SECTION 4. FIRST AID MEASURES

In case of eye contact . Rinse immediately with plenty of water, also under the eyelids, for at
least 15 minutes. Remove contact lenses, If present and easy to do.
Continue rinsing. Get medical attention immediately.

In case of skin contact . Rinse with plenty of water.
If swallowed . Rinse mouth. Get medical attention if symptoms occur.
If inhaled . Remove to fresh air. Treat symptomatically. Get medical attention if

symptoms occur.

Protection of first-aiders . If potential for exposure exists refer to Section 8 for specific personal
protective equipment.

Notes to physician . Treat symptomatically.

Most important symptoms . See Section 11 for more detailed information on health effects and
and effects, both acute and symptoms.

delayed

SECTION 5. FIRE-FIGHTING MEASURES

Suitable extinguishing media : Use extinguishing measures that are appropriate to local
circumstances and the surrounding environment.

Unsuitable extinguishing . None known.

media

Specific hazards during fire . Oxidizer. Contact with other material may cause fire.

fighting

Hazardous combustion . Decomposition products may include the following materials:
products Carbon oxides

Special protective equipment : Use personal protective equipment.

for fire-fighters

Specific extinguishing . Fire residues and contaminated fire extinguishing water must be

methods disposed of in accordance with local regulations. In the event of fire
and/or explosion do not breathe fumes.

SECTION 6. ACCIDENTAL RELEASE MEASURES

Personal precautions, . Ensure adequate ventilation. Keep people away from and upwind of
protective equipment and spill/leak. Avoid inhalation, ingestion and contact with skin and eyes.
emergency procedures When workers are facing concentrations above the exposure limit they

must use appropriate certified respirators. Ensure clean-up is

959320-02 2/8

SAFETY DATA SHEET
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE

conducted by trained personnel only. Refer to protective measures
listed in sections 7 and 8.

Environmental precautions . Do not allow contact with soll, surface or ground water.
Methods and materials for . Stop leak if safe to do so. Contain spillage, and then collect with non-
containment and cleaning up combustible absorbent material, (e.g. sand, earth, diatomaceous

earth, vermiculite) and place in container for disposal according to
local / national regulations (see section 13). Flush away traces with
water. Isolate absorbed wastes contaminated with this product from
other waste streams containing combustible materials (paper, wood
fibers, cloth, etc.). Combustible materials exposed to this product
should be rinsed immediately with large amounts of water to ensure
that all product is removed. Residual product which is allowed to dry
on organic materials such as rags, cloths, paper, fabrics, cotton,
leather, wood, or other combustibles may spontaneously ignite and
result in a fire.

SECTION 7. HANDLING AND STORAGE

Advice on safe handling . Do not ingest. Do not get in eyes, on skin, or on clothing. Do not
breathe dust/ fume/ gas/ mist/ vapors/ spray. Use only with adequate
ventilation. Wash hands thoroughly after handling.

Conditions for safe storage . Do not store on wooden pallets. Keep in a cool, well-ventilated place.
Keep away from reducing agents. Keep away from combustible
material. Keep out of reach of children. Keep container tightly closed.
Store in suitable labeled containers.

Storage temperature . 0°C to 50°C

SECTION 8. EXPOSURE CONTROLS/PERSONAL PROTECTION

Ingredients with workplace control parameters

Components CAS-No. Form of Permissible Basis
exposure concentration

Hydrogen peroxide 7722-84-1 ACGIH

™ e [T
1.4 mg/m3

™ e [P
1.4 mg/m3

Engineering measures . Effective exhaust ventilation system. Maintain air concentrations
below occupational exposure standards.

Personal protective equipment
Eye protection . Wear eye protection/ face protection.
Hand protection . Wear the following personal protective equipment:
Standard glove type.
Gloves should be discarded and replaced if there is any indication of

degradation or chemical breakthrough.

Skin protection . No special protective equipment required.

959320-02 3/8

SAFETY DATA SHEET
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE

Respiratory protection . No personal respiratory protective equipment normally required.

Hygiene measures . Handle in accordance with good industrial hygiene and safety
practice. Wash face, hands and any exposed skin thoroughly after
handling. Provide suitable facilities for quick drenching or flushing of
the eyes and body in case of contact or splash hazard.

SECTION 9. PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES

Appearance . liquid

Color . clear, colorless
Odor . pungent

pH  1.7-3.2, (100 %)
Flash point . Not applicable, Sustains combustion
Odor Threshold . No data available
Melting point/freezing point . No data avalilable
Initial boiling point and . > 100 °C

boiling range

Evaporation rate . No data available
Flammability (solid, gas) . No data available
Upper explosion limit . No data available
Lower explosion limit . No data available
Vapor pressure . No data avalilable
Relative vapor density . No data avalilable
Relative density . 1.08-1.18
Water solubility . soluble

Solubility in other solvents . No data available
Partition coetficient: n- . No data available
octanol/water

Autoignition temperature . No data avalilable
Thermal decomposition . No data avalilable
Viscosity, kinematic . No data avalilable
Explosive properties . No data avalilable
Oxidizing properties . No data available
Molecular weight . No data avalilable
VOC . No data available

SECTION 10. STABILITY AND REACTIVITY

Chemical stability . Contamination may result in dangerous pressure increases - closed
containers may rupture.

Possibility of hazardous . No dangerous reaction known under conditions of normal use.
reactions
Conditions to avoid . None known.

959320-02 4/8

SAFETY DATA SHEET
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE

Incompatible materials . Acids and bases
Metals
Organic materials

Hazardous decomposition . Decomposition products may include the following materials:
products Carbon oxides

SECTION 11. TOXICOLOGICAL INFORMATION

Information on likely routes of : Inhalation, Eye contact, Skin contact
exposure

Potential Health Effects

Eyes . Causes serious eye damage.

Skin . Health injuries are not known or expected under normal use.
Ingestion . Harmful if swallowed.

Inhalation . Health injuries are not known or expected under normal use.
Chronic Exposure . Health injuries are not known or expected under normal use.

Experience with human exposure

Eye contact . Redness, Pain, Corrosion

Skin contact . No symptoms known or expected.

Ingestion : No information available.

Inhalation . No symptoms known or expected.

Toxicity

Product

Acute oral toxicity . Acute toxicity estimate : 1,462 mg/kg

Acute inhalation toxicity . 4 h Acute toxicity estimate : 33.08 mg/|
Test atmosphere: vapor

Acute dermal toxicity . No data avalilable

Skin corrosion/irritation : No skin irritation

Serious eye damage/eye . Irreversible effects on the eye

irritation

Respiratory or skin . No data available

sensitization

Carcinogenicity . No data available

Reproductive effects . No data avalilable

Germ cell mutagenicity . No data available

Teratogenicity . No data available

STOT-single exposure . No data available

STOT-repeated exposure . No data available

959320-02 5/8

SAFETY DATA SHEET
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE

Aspiration toxicity :  No data available

SECTION 12. ECOLOGICAL INFORMATION

Ecotoxicity

Environmental Effects . Harmful to aquatic life.
Product

Toxicity to fish . 96 h LC50: 58.0 mg/l
Toxicity to daphnia and other : No data available
aquatic invertebrates

Toxicity to algae . No data available
Components

Toxicity to algae . Hydrogen peroxide

72 h EC50: 1.38 mg/l

Persistence and degradability

Not applicable - inorganic

Bioaccumulative potential

No data available

Mobility In soil

No data available

Other adverse effects

No data available
SECTION 13. DISPOSAL CONSIDERATIONS

Disposal methods . Do not contaminate ponds, waterways or ditches with chemical or
used container. Where possible recycling is preferred to disposal or
iIncineration. If recycling is not practicable, dispose of in compliance
with local regulations. Dispose of wastes in an approved waste
disposal facility.

Disposal considerations . Dispose of as unused product. Empty containers should be taken to
an approved waste handling site for recycling or disposal. Do not re-
use empty containers. Dispose of in accordance with local, state, and
federal regulations.

RCRA - Resource . D002 (Corrosive)
Conservation and Recovery

Authorization Act Hazardous

waste

SECTION 14. TRANSPORT INFORMATION

The shipper/consignor/sender Is responsible to ensure that the packaging, labeling, and markings are
iIn compliance with the selected mode of transport.

Land transport (DOT)
UN number . 2014

959320-02 /8

SAFETY DATA SHEET
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE

Description of the goods . Hydrogen peroxide, aqueous solutions
Class - 5.1 (8)

Packing group |

Environmentally hazardous gl

Sea transport (IMDG/IMO)

UN number . 2014

Description of the goods . HYDROGEN PEROXIDE, AQUEOUS SOLUTION
Class - 5.1 (8)

Packing group |

Marine pollutant . Nno

SECTION 15. REGULATORY INFORMATION

EPCRA - Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know

CERCLA Reportable Quantity
This material does not contain any components with a CERCLA RQ.

SARA 304 Extremely Hazardous Substances Reportable Quantity
This material does not contain any components with a section 304 EHS RQ.

SARA 311/312 Hazards . Oxidizer (liguid, solid or gas)
Acute toxicity (any route of exposure)
Serious eye damage or eye irritation

SARA 302 . The tollowing components are subject to reporting levels established
by SARA Title Ill, Section 302:

Hydrogen peroxide 7722-84-1 33 %

SARA 313 . This material does not contain any chemical components with known
CAS numbers that exceed the threshold (De Minimis) reporting levels
established by SARA Title Ill, Section 313.

California Prop. 65

This product does not contain any chemicals known to the State of California to cause cancer, birth, or
any other reproductive defects.

California Cleaning Product Right to Know Act of 2017 (SB 258)
This regulation applies to this product.

Chemical Name CAS-No.
7732-18-5 Not Applicable
7722-84-1 Cleaning Agent Not Applicable

“refer to ecolab.com/sds for electronic links to designated lists

The ingredients of this product are reported in the following inventories:

United States TSCA Inventory :
On the inventory, or in compliance with the inventory

Canadian Domestic Substances List (DSL) :
All components of this product are on the Canadian DSL

959320-02 /7/8

SAFETY DATA SHEET
HYDROGEN PEROXIDE

Australia Inventory of Chemical Substances (AICS) :
On the inventory, or in compliance with the inventory

New Zealand. Inventory of Chemical Substances
On the inventory, or in compliance with the inventory

Japan. ENCS - Existing and New Chemical Substances Inventory :
On the inventory, or in compliance with the inventory

Korea. Korean Existing Chemicals Inventory (KECI) :
On the inventory, or in compliance with the inventory

Philippines Inventory of Chemicals and Chemical Substances (PICCS) :
On the inventory, or in compliance with the inventory

China. Inventory of Existing Chemical Substances in China (IECSC) :
On the inventory, or in compliance with the inventory

Taiwan Chemical Substance Inventory (TCSI) :
On the inventory, or in compliance with the inventory

SECTION 16. OTHER INFORMATION

NFPA: HMIS III:

Flammability
HEALTH -

0
= 2 FLAMMABILITY n
1 —
< PHYSICAL HAZARD '
| = not significant, 1 =Slight,
Special hazard. 2 Moderate, 3 = High
4 = Extreme, * = Chronic

Issuing date : 03/14/2019
Version 1.2
Prepared by . Regulatory Affairs

REVISED INFORMATION: Significant changes to regulatory or health information for this revision is
indicated by a bar in the left-hand margin of the SDS.

The information provided in this Material Safety Data Sheet is correct to the best of our knowledge,
information and belief at the date of its publication. The information given is designed only as a
guidance for safe handling, use, processing, storage, transportation, disposal and release and is
not to be considered a warranty or quality specification. The information relates only to the specific
material designated and may not be valid for such material used in combination with any other
materials or in any process, unless specified in the text.

959320-02 8/8
